# YouTube Trending Videos Data Analysis
Authors: Eric Fan, Christofer Forbes, Emma Xia, Brian Ho

## Project Description
The dataset will be working with is on **Trending YouTube Video Statistics**. We found this dataset on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasnaek/youtube-new/data) and according to that website, the top three contributors go by the names _Donyoe_, _Quan Nguyen_, and _Peter_. The data is based on the views, ratings, comments, and the categories of Trending YouTube Videos. Many people would potentially be interseted in this kind of data, such as **YouTubers**, **YouTube watchers** that range from kids to adults, and the **advertisers** that place ads on popular YouTube channels. However, will be focusing on **YouTubers in the USA** as our main audience, as the statistics will benefit them. From these statistics, they will be _able to understand the types of videos and categories that are trendy and stay trendy_ on the platform. This will enable success to continue in their own channels. YouTubers will also be able to see the _relevancy of ratings (likes to dislike ratio) and its benefit to their videos_ on the website.

## Technical Description
We will be **reading our data from a static .csv** provided by [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasnaek/youtube-new/data). Besides the `dplyr`, `plotly`, and `shiny` libraries, we currently are not aware of any new libraries needed for our assignment. In terms of data wrangling, we will be **filtering, reshaping, reformatting, and summarizing data** depending on the aspects we decide to add to our application later on. Figuring out **what data to display** and **how that data will displayed** will be the most challenging part of our assignment. This is because we need to figure out what data visualizations will best fit the aspects of data we want to show. 
